README.md, before:

# 🌍 Bookiji - Universal Booking Platform

**The world's first AI-powered, privacy-first universal booking platform with $1 commitment fees.**

[![Tests](https://img.shields.io/badge/tests-278%2F278%20passing-brightgreen)](https://github.com/your-org/bookiji)
[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/badge/coverage-100%25-brightgreen)](https://github.com/your-org/bookiji)
[![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-production%20ready-blue)](https://bookiji.com)

---

## 🚀 **What's Actually Live Right Now**

**Note:** All features listed in this section are implemented and present in the codebase. Counts may evolve over time.

### ✅ **Core Platform (100% Complete)**
- **🧠 AI-Powered Booking Interface** - Natural language service discovery with intelligent fallbacks
- **🛡️ Privacy-First Location System** - Revolutionary provider protection with map abstraction
- **💸 $1 Commitment Fee System** - No-show elimination with automated refunds
- **🌍 Global Multi-Currency Support** - 37 countries, 27 currencies, 18+ locales
- **⚡ Real-Time Booking Engine** - Instant confirmation and Stripe payments
- **📱 Mobile-First PWA** - App-like experience across all devices
- **🔐 Secure Authentication** - Role-based access with OAuth2 providers
- **💳 Stripe Payment Processing** - Live payment processing ready

### ✅ **Starter Commit Infrastructure (100% Complete)**
- **📋 Contract-First API Design** - OpenAPI specification with consistent error envelopes
- **🗄️ Database Foundation** - Payments outbox, audit logging, and access tracking
- **🔌 API Endpoints** - Quote generation, booking confirmation, cancellation, and admin operations
- **🧪 Testing Framework** - Playwright E2E tests with complete booking flow validation
- **🛠️ Operational Tools** - Simulation scenarios, rollback capabilities, and monitoring
- **📚 Documentation** - Comprehensive API guides and implementation examples

### ✅ **User Experience (100% Complete)**
- **🎯 Complete Guided Tours System** - Multiple tour categories with replay functionality
- **📚 Help Center MVP** - A growing set of help articles with AI-powered search and suggestions
- **🔄 Role Clarity System** - Customer/provider role selection and switching
- **ℹ️ Smart Tooltips** - Contextual help across 5 key features
- **📡 Dynamic Broadcasting** - Intelligent service request system
- **🗺️ Interactive Map v1** - Privacy-respecting provider discovery

### ✅ **Admin & Analytics (100% Complete)**
- **📊 Comprehensive Analytics Dashboard** - Conversion funnels, error monitoring, geographic insights
- **🚨 Error Monitoring & Alerting** - Sentry integration with automatic error capture and reporting
- **📈 Funnel Tracking** - Real-time conversion metrics from landing to booking confirmation
- **👨‍💼 Admin Management System** - Complete platform oversight and approvals
- **🔔 Multi-Channel Notifications** - Email, SMS with retry logic and DLQ
- **🛡️ Security & Compliance** - RLS policies, rate limiting, daily backups

---

## 🧱 Base vs 🧩 Core (Authoritative)

**This section defines Bookiji's identity and invariants. It is not a claim that all items listed are already live.**

Bookiji distinguishes between Base and Core capabilities.

This distinction is normative: it defines what Bookiji is, not just what it currently has.

### 🧱 Base — Load-Bearing Capabilities

Base capabilities are required for Bookiji to function as a real-time, trust-enforced, economically self-sustaining booking platform.
If any Base capability is removed or compromised, Bookiji is no longer operational in its intended sense.

Base includes:

**Real-time booking execution**
Contract-first, versioned, traceable quote → confirm → cancel flows with strong finality once payment is confirmed

**Payment-coupled booking finality**
No soft bookings; payment state and booking state are coupled at confirmation time

**$1 commitment fee with automated refunds**
Mechanical prevention of spam and no-shows

**Provider protection**
Privacy-first location abstraction that prevents provider identity leakage by default

**Role-based authentication**
Explicit customer / provider separation enforced at execution time

**Trust & abuse enforcement**
Rate limiting, row-level security (RLS), audit logs, and access tracking

**Contract-first interfaces**
OpenAPI specifications and payments outbox for explainability

**Reliable communications**
Booking-critical email/SMS notifications with retries, DLQ, and assisted support

### 🧩 Core — Product, Experience & Operations

Core capabilities make Bookiji usable, competitive, and observable, but are replaceable without breaking the platform's identity.

Core includes:

- AI-powered booking UX and intelligent fallbacks

- Mobile-first PWA and interactive map

- Internationalization (currencies, locales, time zones)

- Guided onboarding, help center, and contextual tooltips

- Admin tools, analytics, funnels, and monitoring

- Notification UX and dashboards

- Testing frameworks, simulation, rollback tooling

- Documentation and developer experience

### 🔌 Extension Points — Platform Fuel

Bookiji requires a pluggable, non-intrusive platform fuel mechanism to sustain idle operation, strictly separated from booking execution and trust paths.

The fuel mechanism must:

- Be strictly separated from booking execution and trust paths
- Never influence matching, ranking, or booking outcomes
- Be clearly labeled and non-deceptive

Current / potential implementations include:

- In-product advertising (clearly labeled)
- Subscriptions or usage-based fees
- Infrastructure sponsorship or licensing

### Re-base v1 (Post-2014 Audit)

This documentation reflects Re-base v1, aligning Bookiji's foundations with:

- the original 2014 objectives,
- the features actually live today,
- and the economic requirement for idle-state sustainability.

This replaces any prior implicit or narrative definitions of "core" functionality.

---

## 🧪 SimCity — Stress & Resilience Testing (Internal)

SimCity is an **internal, non-authoritative stress-testing harness** used to validate Bookiji's resilience under hostile, chaotic, and realistic conditions.

It exists to **falsify assumptions**, not to simulate business logic or make decisions.

### What SimCity Does
- Generates **synthetic external pressure** (traffic bursts, failures, retries, delays)
- Simulates adversarial behavior from users, providers, networks, and dependencies
- Replays constrained scenarios to stress concurrency, latency, and edge cases
- Validates system invariants (e.g. no double booking, no trust leakage)

### What SimCity Is Not
- Not part of production request paths
- Not a decision-maker or optimizer
- Not a simulator of Bookiji's internal logic
- Not persistent, learning, or adaptive
- Not authoritative over bookings, payments, or trust rules

### Authority Boundary
**SimCity generates inputs only.  
Bookiji owns all decisions.**

Each SimCity run is time-bounded, disposable, and produces a report.  
No state, intent, or knowledge persists between runs.

> If SimCity ever becomes something Bookiji needs to run, SimCity is wrong.

---

## Deterministic Chaos Harness (Non-Prod)

Note: This harness is a fully external tool.  
Bookiji does not expose any chaos- or stress-specific APIs.

This is a **short-lived chaos runner** that generates **deterministic event sequences** against Bookiji Scheduling **via existing public HTTP APIs and direct Supabase service-role queries**, continuously asserts **hard invariants**, then exits.

### What It Is Not
- Not a simulator, world model, analytics engine, learning system, daemon, or decision maker
- Not allowed to touch production URLs, credentials, or databases

### Invariants (Continuously Asserted)
- No double booking for same vendor/slot
- Canceled booking never resurrects
- Notification idempotency (no duplicates)
- Booking requires availability
- No payment or billing state touched
- No cross-vendor data leakage

### How To Run (Local Only)
1. Start local Supabase + app with E2E enabled (example): `E2E=true FORCE_LOCAL_DB=true pnpm dev`
2. Build the harness image: `docker build -f chaos/Dockerfile -t bookiji-chaos chaos`
3. Run one bounded execution (no volumes by default):
   - `docker run --rm -e SUPABASE_URL=http://host.docker.internal:54321 -e SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY=... bookiji-chaos --seed 812736 --duration 30 --max-events 500 --concurrency 8 --target-url http://host.docker.internal:3000`

Optional: write a failure artifact inside the container with `--out /tmp/failure.json` (mount a volume if you want it on the host).

Example failure artifact shape: `chaos/examples/example_failure.json`

## 🎯 **What's Coming Next (Roadmap)**

### **🚧 P1 - Launch Polish (This Week)**
- [x] Analytics Dashboard ✅ **COMPLETE**
- [x] Error Monitoring ✅ **COMPLETE**
- [x] Funnel Tracking ✅ **COMPLETE**
- [x] Documentation Updates ✅ **COMPLETE**
- [x] Starter Commit Infrastructure ✅ **COMPLETE**
- [x] Performance Optimization ✅ **COMPLETE** (Implementation done, pending production deployment)

### **📈 P2 - Experience & Scale (Next 30 Days)**
- [x] Post-Booking Reputation (Ratings)
- [x] Notifications 2.0 (Web Push, Batching)
- [x] i18n Completeness Pass

### **📅 P3 - Vendor Booking System (Go-to-Market)**

- [ ] Vendor-first positioning for Bookiji Scheduling
- [ ] Vendor subscription lifecycle live
- [ ] Payment-free vendor booking flows enforced
- [ ] Vendor expectation communication surfaced
- [ ] Vendor UX hardened for daily standalone use
- [ ] README aligned with vendor system boundaries

### **🌟 P4 - Differentiators (60-90 Days)**
- [ ] Voice Input in AI Chat
- [ ] Image Attachments for Job Descriptions
- [ ] Heatmap Visualizations
- [ ] Loyalty & Credits System
- [ ] Rich Provider Profiles & Portfolios

**Foundational Hardening**
- [ ] Performance & cost guardrails (SLOs, budgets, alerts)
- [ ] SimCity stress harness (synthetic load & invariant falsification — non-production only)
---

## 🚀 **Quick Start**

### **For Users**
1. Visit [bookiji.com](https://bookiji.com)
2. Choose your role (Customer or Provider)
3. Complete the guided tour
4. Start booking or offering services!



### **Vercel Deployment**
The project includes automatic handling of Supabase Edge Functions during build:

- **Build Script**: `scripts/build-without-supabase-functions.js` temporarily moves Deno functions
- **Configuration**: `.vercelignore` and `tsconfig.json` exclude incompatible files
- **Result**: Clean builds without Deno import conflicts

For detailed information, see [SUPABASE_FUNCTIONS_BUILD_FIX.md](docs/deployment/SUPABASE_FUNCTIONS_BUILD_FIX.md).

### **Build Issues**
If you encounter build problems:

1. **Deno Import Errors**: The build script automatically handles these
2. **TypeScript Issues**: Check `tsconfig.json` exclusions
3. **Vercel Failures**: Verify `.vercelignore` is committed

---

## 🏗️ **Architecture**

### **Frontend**
- **Next.js 15** with App Router
- **TypeScript** for type safety
- **Tailwind CSS** for styling
- **Shadcn/ui** component library

### **Backend**
- **Supabase** for database and auth
- **PostgreSQL** with RLS policies
- **Edge Functions** for serverless APIs
- **Real-time subscriptions**

### **AI & ML**
- **Ollama** for local LLM inference
- **Railway** for production AI hosting
- **Intelligent fallbacks** for reliability

### **Payments & Notifications**
- **Stripe** for payment processing
- **SendGrid/Resend** for email
- **Twilio** for SMS
- **Dead Letter Queue** for reliability

---


## 📊 **Performance Metrics**

- **Lighthouse Score:** 95+ across all metrics
- **Core Web Vitals:** All green
- **Bundle Size:** < 500KB gzipped
- **TTFB:** < 200ms average
- **Interactive Time:** < 2.5s on 4G

---

## 🌍 **Global Support**

### **Countries:** 37
### **Currencies:** 27
### **Languages:** 17
### **Time Zones:** All major zones

---

## 🔒 **Security & Privacy**

- **GDPR Compliant** data handling
- **Row-Level Security** (RLS) policies
- **Rate Limiting** on all public APIs
- **CSP Headers** for XSS protection
- **Daily Automated Backups**
- **Encrypted data at rest**

---

## 📈 **Analytics & Monitoring**

- **Real-time Conversion Funnels**
- **Error Rate Monitoring**
- **Geographic Performance Tracking**
- **Device Analytics**
- **User Behavior Segmentation**
- **Critical Error Alerts**

---

## 📄 **License**

This project is proprietary software. All rights reserved.

---

## 📞 **Support**

- **Help Center:** [help.bookiji.com](https://help.bookiji.com)
- **Email:** support@bookiji.com
- **Status Page:** [status.bookiji.com](https://status.bookiji.com)

---

**Built with ❤️ by the Bookiji Team**

*Last Updated: January 23, 2025*
*Version: 1.0.0-beta*

Commit message:

refactor: update SimCity documentation and remove chaos event references
- Renamed the SimCity section in README.md to reflect its purpose as a synthetic load generator for non-production environments.
- Removed references to chaos events and failure injections from the StandardizedEvent type and related files.
- Cleaned up the SimOrchestrator class by eliminating unused scenario execution logic and related event handling.
- Updated scenario specifications to focus on synthetic load without chaos elements.
- Deleted obsolete chaos-related tests and utility functions to streamline the testing framework.

README.md, after:

# 🌍 Bookiji - Universal Booking Platform

**The world's first AI-powered, privacy-first universal booking platform with $1 commitment fees.**

[![Tests](https://img.shields.io/badge/tests-278%2F278%20passing-brightgreen)](https://github.com/your-org/bookiji)
[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/badge/coverage-100%25-brightgreen)](https://github.com/your-org/bookiji)
[![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-production%20ready-blue)](https://bookiji.com)

---

## 🚀 **What's Actually Live Right Now**

**Note:** All features listed in this section are implemented and present in the codebase. Counts may evolve over time.

### ✅ **Core Platform (100% Complete)**
- **🧠 AI-Powered Booking Interface** - Natural language service discovery with intelligent fallbacks
- **🛡️ Privacy-First Location System** - Revolutionary provider protection with map abstraction
- **💸 $1 Commitment Fee System** - No-show elimination with automated refunds
- **🌍 Global Multi-Currency Support** - 37 countries, 27 currencies, 18+ locales
- **⚡ Real-Time Booking Engine** - Instant confirmation and Stripe payments
- **📱 Mobile-First PWA** - App-like experience across all devices
- **🔐 Secure Authentication** - Role-based access with OAuth2 providers
- **💳 Stripe Payment Processing** - Live payment processing ready

### ✅ **Starter Commit Infrastructure (100% Complete)**
- **📋 Contract-First API Design** - OpenAPI specification with consistent error envelopes
- **🗄️ Database Foundation** - Payments outbox, audit logging, and access tracking
- **🔌 API Endpoints** - Quote generation, booking confirmation, cancellation, and admin operations
- **🧪 Testing Framework** - Playwright E2E tests with complete booking flow validation
- **🛠️ Operational Tools** - Simulation scenarios, rollback capabilities, and monitoring
- **📚 Documentation** - Comprehensive API guides and implementation examples

### ✅ **User Experience (100% Complete)**
- **🎯 Complete Guided Tours System** - Multiple tour categories with replay functionality
- **📚 Help Center MVP** - A growing set of help articles with AI-powered search and suggestions
- **🔄 Role Clarity System** - Customer/provider role selection and switching
- **ℹ️ Smart Tooltips** - Contextual help across 5 key features
- **📡 Dynamic Broadcasting** - Intelligent service request system
- **🗺️ Interactive Map v1** - Privacy-respecting provider discovery

### ✅ **Admin & Analytics (100% Complete)**
- **📊 Comprehensive Analytics Dashboard** - Conversion funnels, error monitoring, geographic insights
- **🚨 Error Monitoring & Alerting** - Sentry integration with automatic error capture and reporting
- **📈 Funnel Tracking** - Real-time conversion metrics from landing to booking confirmation
- **👨‍💼 Admin Management System** - Complete platform oversight and approvals
- **🔔 Multi-Channel Notifications** - Email, SMS with retry logic and DLQ
- **🛡️ Security & Compliance** - RLS policies, rate limiting, daily backups

---

## 🧱 Base vs 🧩 Core (Authoritative)

**This section defines Bookiji's identity and invariants. It is not a claim that all items listed are already live.**

Bookiji distinguishes between Base and Core capabilities.

This distinction is normative: it defines what Bookiji is, not just what it currently has.

### 🧱 Base — Load-Bearing Capabilities

Base capabilities are required for Bookiji to function as a real-time, trust-enforced, economically self-sustaining booking platform.
If any Base capability is removed or compromised, Bookiji is no longer operational in its intended sense.

Base includes:

**Real-time booking execution**
Contract-first, versioned, traceable quote → confirm → cancel flows with strong finality once payment is confirmed

**Payment-coupled booking finality**
No soft bookings; payment state and booking state are coupled at confirmation time

**$1 commitment fee with automated refunds**
Mechanical prevention of spam and no-shows

**Provider protection**
Privacy-first location abstraction that prevents provider identity leakage by default

**Role-based authentication**
Explicit customer / provider separation enforced at execution time

**Trust & abuse enforcement**
Rate limiting, row-level security (RLS), audit logs, and access tracking

**Contract-first interfaces**
OpenAPI specifications and payments outbox for explainability

**Reliable communications**
Booking-critical email/SMS notifications with retries, DLQ, and assisted support

### 🧩 Core — Product, Experience & Operations

Core capabilities make Bookiji usable, competitive, and observable, but are replaceable without breaking the platform's identity.

Core includes:

- AI-powered booking UX and intelligent fallbacks

- Mobile-first PWA and interactive map

- Internationalization (currencies, locales, time zones)

- Guided onboarding, help center, and contextual tooltips

- Admin tools, analytics, funnels, and monitoring

- Notification UX and dashboards

- Testing frameworks, simulation, rollback tooling

- Documentation and developer experience

### 🔌 Extension Points — Platform Fuel

Bookiji requires a pluggable, non-intrusive platform fuel mechanism to sustain idle operation, strictly separated from booking execution and trust paths.

The fuel mechanism must:

- Be strictly separated from booking execution and trust paths
- Never influence matching, ranking, or booking outcomes
- Be clearly labeled and non-deceptive

Current / potential implementations include:

- In-product advertising (clearly labeled)
- Subscriptions or usage-based fees
- Infrastructure sponsorship or licensing

### Re-base v1 (Post-2014 Audit)

This documentation reflects Re-base v1, aligning Bookiji's foundations with:

- the original 2014 objectives,
- the features actually live today,
- and the economic requirement for idle-state sustainability.

This replaces any prior implicit or narrative definitions of "core" functionality.

---

## 🧪 SimCity — Synthetic Load (Non-Prod)

SimCity is a **non-production** synthetic load generator used for dashboards, demos, and bounded traffic patterns.

It does **not** inject failures, outages, or other chaos behaviors into Bookiji runtime code.

---

## Deterministic Chaos Harness (Non-Prod)

Note: This harness is a fully external tool.  
Bookiji does not expose any chaos- or stress-specific APIs.

This is a **short-lived chaos runner** that generates **deterministic event sequences** against Bookiji Scheduling **via existing public HTTP APIs and direct Supabase service-role queries**, continuously asserts **hard invariants**, then exits.

### What It Is Not
- Not a simulator, world model, analytics engine, learning system, daemon, or decision maker
- Not allowed to touch production URLs, credentials, or databases

### Invariants (Continuously Asserted)
- No double booking for same vendor/slot
- Canceled booking never resurrects
- Notification idempotency (no duplicates)
- Booking requires availability
- No payment or billing state touched
- No cross-vendor data leakage

### How To Run (Local Only)
1. Start local Supabase + app with E2E enabled (example): `E2E=true FORCE_LOCAL_DB=true pnpm dev`
2. Build the harness image: `docker build -f chaos/Dockerfile -t bookiji-chaos chaos`
3. Run one bounded execution (no volumes by default):
   - `docker run --rm -e SUPABASE_URL=http://host.docker.internal:54321 -e SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY=... bookiji-chaos --seed 812736 --duration 30 --max-events 500 --concurrency 8 --target-url http://host.docker.internal:3000`

Optional: write a failure artifact inside the container with `--out /tmp/failure.json` (mount a volume if you want it on the host).

Example failure artifact shape: `chaos/examples/example_failure.json`

## 🎯 **What's Coming Next (Roadmap)**

### **🚧 P1 - Launch Polish (This Week)**
- [x] Analytics Dashboard ✅ **COMPLETE**
- [x] Error Monitoring ✅ **COMPLETE**
- [x] Funnel Tracking ✅ **COMPLETE**
- [x] Documentation Updates ✅ **COMPLETE**
- [x] Starter Commit Infrastructure ✅ **COMPLETE**
- [x] Performance Optimization ✅ **COMPLETE** (Implementation done, pending production deployment)

### **📈 P2 - Experience & Scale (Next 30 Days)**
- [x] Post-Booking Reputation (Ratings)
- [x] Notifications 2.0 (Web Push, Batching)
- [x] i18n Completeness Pass

### **📅 P3 - Vendor Booking System (Go-to-Market)**

- [ ] Vendor-first positioning for Bookiji Scheduling
- [ ] Vendor subscription lifecycle live
- [ ] Payment-free vendor booking flows enforced
- [ ] Vendor expectation communication surfaced
- [ ] Vendor UX hardened for daily standalone use
- [ ] README aligned with vendor system boundaries

### **🌟 P4 - Differentiators (60-90 Days)**
- [ ] Voice Input in AI Chat
- [ ] Image Attachments for Job Descriptions
- [ ] Heatmap Visualizations
- [ ] Loyalty & Credits System
- [ ] Rich Provider Profiles & Portfolios

**Foundational Hardening**
- [ ] Performance & cost guardrails (SLOs, budgets, alerts)
- [ ] SimCity stress harness (synthetic load & invariant falsification — non-production only)
---

## 🚀 **Quick Start**

### **For Users**
1. Visit [bookiji.com](https://bookiji.com)
2. Choose your role (Customer or Provider)
3. Complete the guided tour
4. Start booking or offering services!



### **Vercel Deployment**
The project includes automatic handling of Supabase Edge Functions during build:

- **Build Script**: `scripts/build-without-supabase-functions.js` temporarily moves Deno functions
- **Configuration**: `.vercelignore` and `tsconfig.json` exclude incompatible files
- **Result**: Clean builds without Deno import conflicts

For detailed information, see [SUPABASE_FUNCTIONS_BUILD_FIX.md](docs/deployment/SUPABASE_FUNCTIONS_BUILD_FIX.md).

### **Build Issues**
If you encounter build problems:

1. **Deno Import Errors**: The build script automatically handles these
2. **TypeScript Issues**: Check `tsconfig.json` exclusions
3. **Vercel Failures**: Verify `.vercelignore` is committed

---

## 🏗️ **Architecture**

### **Frontend**
- **Next.js 15** with App Router
- **TypeScript** for type safety
- **Tailwind CSS** for styling
- **Shadcn/ui** component library

### **Backend**
- **Supabase** for database and auth
- **PostgreSQL** with RLS policies
- **Edge Functions** for serverless APIs
- **Real-time subscriptions**

### **AI & ML**
- **Ollama** for local LLM inference
- **Railway** for production AI hosting
- **Intelligent fallbacks** for reliability

### **Payments & Notifications**
- **Stripe** for payment processing
- **SendGrid/Resend** for email
- **Twilio** for SMS
- **Dead Letter Queue** for reliability

---


## 📊 **Performance Metrics**

- **Lighthouse Score:** 95+ across all metrics
- **Core Web Vitals:** All green
- **Bundle Size:** < 500KB gzipped
- **TTFB:** < 200ms average
- **Interactive Time:** < 2.5s on 4G

---

## 🌍 **Global Support**

### **Countries:** 37
### **Currencies:** 27
### **Languages:** 17
### **Time Zones:** All major zones

---

## 🔒 **Security & Privacy**

- **GDPR Compliant** data handling
- **Row-Level Security** (RLS) policies
- **Rate Limiting** on all public APIs
- **CSP Headers** for XSS protection
- **Daily Automated Backups**
- **Encrypted data at rest**

---

## 📈 **Analytics & Monitoring**

- **Real-time Conversion Funnels**
- **Error Rate Monitoring**
- **Geographic Performance Tracking**
- **Device Analytics**
- **User Behavior Segmentation**
- **Critical Error Alerts**

---

## 📄 **License**

This project is proprietary software. All rights reserved.

---

## 📞 **Support**

- **Help Center:** [help.bookiji.com](https://help.bookiji.com)
- **Email:** support@bookiji.com
- **Status Page:** [status.bookiji.com](https://status.bookiji.com)

---

**Built with ❤️ by the Bookiji Team**

*Last Updated: January 23, 2025*
*Version: 1.0.0-beta*
