docs/deployment/DATABASE_SETUP.md, before:

# 🗄️ Week 1: Database Foundation Setup

## ✅ **Current Status**
- ✅ Supabase project configured
- ✅ Environment variables set
- ✅ Database schema designed
- ✅ Client connection working

## 🚨 **Next Steps Required**

### **1. Run Database Migrations**
Your Supabase project needs the schema to be applied. You have two options:

#### **Option A: Use Supabase CLI (Recommended)**
```bash
# Install Supabase CLI
npm install -g supabase

# Login to Supabase
supabase login

# Link your project
supabase link --project-ref YOUR_PROJECT_REF

# Run migrations
supabase db push
```

#### **Option B: Manual SQL Execution**
1. Go to your Supabase Dashboard
2. Navigate to SQL Editor
3. Run the contents of `supabase/migrations/001_initial_schema.sql`
4. Run the contents of `supabase/migrations/20240320000000_create_profiles.sql`

### **2. Test Database Connection**
After running migrations, test the connection:
```bash
curl http://localhost:3000/api/test-database
```

### **3. Seed Demo Data**
Populate your project with sample vendors, customers and bookings:
```bash
supabase db seed --file supabase/seed.sql
```

### **4. Set Up Authentication**
Configure Supabase Auth settings:
1. Go to Authentication > Settings
2. Add your domain: `http://localhost:3000`
3. Configure email templates
4. Set up social providers (optional)

## 📊 **Database Schema Overview**

### **Core Tables**
- **`profiles`** - User profiles (extends Supabase Auth)
- **`services`** - Services offered by vendors
- **`availability_slots`** - Vendor availability
- **`bookings`** - Customer bookings
- **`reviews`** - Post-appointment feedback
- **`provider_locations`** - Vendor locations for map abstraction

### **Key Features**
- ✅ Row Level Security (RLS) enabled
- ✅ Proper indexing for performance
- ✅ UUID primary keys
- ✅ Timestamp tracking
- ✅ Soft deletes (is_active flags)

## 🔧 **Week 1 Tasks**

### **Day 1: Database Setup**
- [ ] Run database migrations
- [ ] Test database connection
- [ ] Verify RLS policies
- [ ] Test basic CRUD operations

### **Day 2: Authentication Integration**
- [ ] Connect registration to database
- [ ] Save onboarding data
- [ ] Implement user profile management
- [ ] Test auth flow end-to-end

### **Day 3: Core Data Operations**
- [ ] Implement service creation
- [ ] Add availability management
- [ ] Create booking system
- [ ] Test data persistence

### **Day 4: API Development**
- [ ] Create user management APIs
- [ ] Build service discovery APIs
- [ ] Implement booking APIs
- [ ] Add error handling

### **Day 5: Integration Testing**
- [ ] Test complete user flow
- [ ] Verify data integrity
- [ ] Performance testing
- [ ] Security audit

## 🎯 **Success Criteria**
- [ ] Database migrations run successfully
- [ ] All API endpoints return correct data
- [ ] User registration saves to database
- [ ] Onboarding data persists
- [ ] No security vulnerabilities
- [ ] Response times under 200ms

## 🚀 **Ready for Week 2**
Once Week 1 is complete, you'll have:
- ✅ Solid database foundation
- ✅ User authentication working
- ✅ Data persistence
- ✅ API layer ready
- ✅ Security policies in place

This sets up the perfect foundation for Week 2: Real AI Integration!

Commit message:

chore: db policy gate docs/env

docs/deployment/DATABASE_SETUP.md, after:

# 🗄️ Week 1: Database Foundation Setup

## ✅ **Current Status**
- ✅ Supabase project configured
- ✅ Environment variables set
- ✅ Database schema designed
- ✅ Client connection working

## 🚨 **Next Steps Required**

### **1. Run Database Migrations**
Your Supabase project needs the schema to be applied. Use CLI-only migrations:
```bash
# Install Supabase CLI
npm install -g supabase

# Login to Supabase
supabase login

# Link your project
supabase link --project-ref YOUR_PROJECT_REF

# Run migrations
supabase db push
```

Manual SQL execution in the dashboard is not allowed. Follow the repository DB policy and use CLI-only migrations.

### **2. Test Database Connection**
After running migrations, test the connection:
```bash
curl http://localhost:3000/api/test-database
```

### **3. Seed Demo Data**
Populate your project with sample vendors, customers and bookings:
```bash
supabase db seed --file supabase/seed.sql
```

### **4. Set Up Authentication**
Configure Supabase Auth settings:
1. Go to Authentication > Settings
2. Add your domain: `http://localhost:3000`
3. Configure email templates
4. Set up social providers (optional)

## 📊 **Database Schema Overview**

### **Core Tables**
- **`profiles`** - User profiles (extends Supabase Auth)
- **`services`** - Services offered by vendors
- **`availability_slots`** - Vendor availability
- **`bookings`** - Customer bookings
- **`reviews`** - Post-appointment feedback
- **`provider_locations`** - Vendor locations for map abstraction

### **Key Features**
- ✅ Row Level Security (RLS) enabled
- ✅ Proper indexing for performance
- ✅ UUID primary keys
- ✅ Timestamp tracking
- ✅ Soft deletes (is_active flags)

## 🔧 **Week 1 Tasks**

### **Day 1: Database Setup**
- [ ] Run database migrations
- [ ] Test database connection
- [ ] Verify RLS policies
- [ ] Test basic CRUD operations

### **Day 2: Authentication Integration**
- [ ] Connect registration to database
- [ ] Save onboarding data
- [ ] Implement user profile management
- [ ] Test auth flow end-to-end

### **Day 3: Core Data Operations**
- [ ] Implement service creation
- [ ] Add availability management
- [ ] Create booking system
- [ ] Test data persistence

### **Day 4: API Development**
- [ ] Create user management APIs
- [ ] Build service discovery APIs
- [ ] Implement booking APIs
- [ ] Add error handling

### **Day 5: Integration Testing**
- [ ] Test complete user flow
- [ ] Verify data integrity
- [ ] Performance testing
- [ ] Security audit

## 🎯 **Success Criteria**
- [ ] Database migrations run successfully
- [ ] All API endpoints return correct data
- [ ] User registration saves to database
- [ ] Onboarding data persists
- [ ] No security vulnerabilities
- [ ] Response times under 200ms

## 🚀 **Ready for Week 2**
Once Week 1 is complete, you'll have:
- ✅ Solid database foundation
- ✅ User authentication working
- ✅ Data persistence
- ✅ API layer ready
- ✅ Security policies in place

This sets up the perfect foundation for Week 2: Real AI Integration!
