docs/user-guides/QUICK_SETUP.md, before:

# 🚀 Quick Setup Guide - Bookiji Streamlined Stack

This guide gets you up and running with Bookiji's streamlined development stack in minutes.

## 📋 Prerequisites

- **Node.js 18+** - [Download here](https://nodejs.org)
- **pnpm** - `npm install -g pnpm`
- **Ollama** - [Download here](https://ollama.ai)

## ⚡ Quick Start (5 minutes)

### 1. **Clone & Install**
```bash
git clone <your-repo>
cd bookiji
pnpm install
```

### 2. **Set Up Environment**
```bash
# Copy environment template
cp .env.example .env.local

# Edit .env.local with your keys:
# - SUPABASE_URL
# - SUPABASE_ANON_KEY  
# - MAPBOX_ACCESS_TOKEN
# - OLLAMA_ENDPOINT=http://localhost:11434
```

### 3. **Start Ollama (AI)**
```bash
# Install Ollama if not already installed
# https://ollama.ai

# Pull the Mistral model
ollama pull mistral

# Start Ollama server (in background)
ollama serve
```

### 4. **Run Development Server**
```bash
pnpm dev
```

### 5. **Open & Test**
- Navigate to `http://localhost:3000`
- Test all features using demo buttons
- Try AI conversational interface

## 🧠 AI Setup (Ollama)

### **Install Ollama**
```bash
# macOS
brew install ollama

# Windows
# Download from https://ollama.ai

# Linux
curl -fsSL https://ollama.ai/install.sh | sh
```

### **Pull Model**
```bash
# Pull Mistral (recommended for Bookiji)
ollama pull mistral

# Alternative models
ollama pull llama3.2:8b
ollama pull codellama:7b
```

### **Test AI**
```bash
# Test Ollama is working
curl http://localhost:11434/api/generate -d '{
  "model": "mistral",
  "prompt": "Hello, how can I help you book a service?"
}'
```

## 🗄 Database Setup (Supabase)

### **1. Create Supabase Project**
- Go to [supabase.com](https://supabase.com)
- Create new project
- Note your project URL and anon key

### **2. Set Environment Variables**
```bash
# In .env.local
SUPABASE_URL=https://your-project.supabase.co
SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your-anon-key
```

### **3. Basic Schema (Optional)**
```sql
-- Users table (handled by Supabase Auth)
-- Bookings table
CREATE TABLE bookings (
  id UUID DEFAULT gen_random_uuid() PRIMARY KEY,
  customer_id UUID REFERENCES auth.users(id),
  vendor_id UUID REFERENCES auth.users(id),
  service_type TEXT NOT NULL,
  booking_date TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE,
  status TEXT DEFAULT 'pending',
  created_at TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE DEFAULT NOW()
);

-- Enable Row Level Security
ALTER TABLE bookings ENABLE ROW LEVEL SECURITY;
```

## 🗺 Map Setup (Mapbox)

### **1. Get Mapbox Token**
- Go to [mapbox.com](https://mapbox.com)
- Create account and get access token
- Add to `.env.local`:
  ```
  MAPBOX_ACCESS_TOKEN=your-token
  ```

### **2. Test Map Integration**
- The map components are ready for integration
- Update `MapAbstraction.tsx` with your token

## 🔐 Authentication Setup (Supabase)

### **1. Configure Auth Providers**
In Supabase Dashboard:
- Go to Authentication → Settings
- Enable providers: Google, GitHub, Email
- Configure redirect URLs

### **2. Set Up Auth in App**
```typescript
// In your auth configuration
const supabase = createClient(
  process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL!,
  process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY!
)
```

## 🚀 Deployment (Vercel)

### **1. Deploy to Vercel**
```bash
# Install Vercel CLI
npm i -g vercel

# Deploy
vercel

# Set environment variables in Vercel dashboard
```

### **2. Environment Variables in Vercel**
- `SUPABASE_URL`
- `SUPABASE_ANON_KEY`
- `MAPBOX_ACCESS_TOKEN`
- `OLLAMA_ENDPOINT` (if using cloud Ollama)

## 🧪 Development Workflow

### **Daily Development**
```bash
# Start all services
ollama serve &  # AI server
pnpm dev        # Next.js dev server

# In another terminal
pnpm type-check # Type checking
pnpm lint       # Linting
```

### **Testing Features**
- **AI Radius Scaling**: Click "Test Radius" button
- **Map Abstraction**: Use "Toggle Abstraction" 
- **No-Show System**: Click "Demo Feedback"
- **AI Conversational**: Try AI input field
- **Booking Guarantee**: Use "Demo Booking"

## 🔧 Troubleshooting

### **Ollama Issues**
```bash
# Check if Ollama is running
curl http://localhost:11434/api/tags

# Restart Ollama
pkill ollama
ollama serve

# Check model is downloaded
ollama list
```

### **Supabase Issues**
```bash
# Test connection
curl https://your-project.supabase.co/rest/v1/

# Check environment variables
echo $SUPABASE_URL
```

### **Next.js Issues**
```bash
# Clear cache
rm -rf .next
pnpm dev

# Check dependencies
pnpm install
```

## 📊 Performance Tips

### **Development**
- Use `pnpm` for faster installs
- Enable TypeScript strict mode
- Use React DevTools for debugging

### **Production**
- Enable Next.js optimizations
- Use Supabase connection pooling
- Configure Ollama for production (or use cloud)

## 🎯 Next Steps

1. **Set up Supabase database schema**
2. **Integrate Mapbox maps**
3. **Configure payment system (Stripe)**
4. **Add real-time features**
5. **Deploy to production**

---

**Need help?** Check the main README.md for detailed documentation or create an issue in the repository.

Commit message:

docs: enhance Supabase CLI authentication and migration guidelines
- Added detailed instructions for CLI authentication, emphasizing the distinction between CLI and application credentials.
- Introduced a preflight check for CLI authentication to streamline the setup process and prevent common errors.
- Expanded the database management policy to include absolute prohibitions against direct SQL execution and the importance of using migrations.
- Updated documentation to clarify the required workflow for schema changes and the significance of maintaining environment isolation.
- Created new documentation files for staging setup and execution reports, ensuring comprehensive guidance for operational procedures.

This commit improves the clarity and usability of the documentation, reinforcing best practices for database management and environment setup.

docs/user-guides/QUICK_SETUP.md, after:

# 🚀 Quick Setup Guide - Bookiji Streamlined Stack

This guide gets you up and running with Bookiji's streamlined development stack in minutes.

## 📋 Prerequisites

- **Node.js 18+** - [Download here](https://nodejs.org)
- **pnpm** - `npm install -g pnpm`
- **Ollama** - [Download here](https://ollama.ai)

## ⚡ Quick Start (5 minutes)

### 1. **Clone & Install**
```bash
git clone <your-repo>
cd bookiji
pnpm install
```

### 2. **Set Up Environment**
```bash
# Copy environment template
cp .env.example .env.local

# Edit .env.local with your keys:
# - SUPABASE_URL
# - SUPABASE_ANON_KEY  
# - MAPBOX_ACCESS_TOKEN
# - OLLAMA_ENDPOINT=http://localhost:11434
```

### 3. **Start Ollama (AI)**
```bash
# Install Ollama if not already installed
# https://ollama.ai

# Pull the Mistral model
ollama pull mistral

# Start Ollama server (in background)
ollama serve
```

### 4. **Run Development Server**
```bash
pnpm dev
```

### 5. **Open & Test**
- Navigate to `http://localhost:3000`
- Test all features using demo buttons
- Try AI conversational interface

## 🧠 AI Setup (Ollama)

### **Install Ollama**
```bash
# macOS
brew install ollama

# Windows
# Download from https://ollama.ai

# Linux
curl -fsSL https://ollama.ai/install.sh | sh
```

### **Pull Model**
```bash
# Pull Mistral (recommended for Bookiji)
ollama pull mistral

# Alternative models
ollama pull llama3.2:8b
ollama pull codellama:7b
```

### **Test AI**
```bash
# Test Ollama is working
curl http://localhost:11434/api/generate -d '{
  "model": "mistral",
  "prompt": "Hello, how can I help you book a service?"
}'
```

## 🗄 Database Setup (Supabase)

### **0. Preflight Check (REQUIRED)**
**Before any Supabase operations, verify CLI authentication:**
```bash
pnpm supabase:doctor
```

This checks if Supabase CLI is authenticated. If it fails:
- Run `supabase login` (CLI authentication, separate from app credentials)
- See: `docs/development/SUPABASE_CLI_AUTH.md` for details

**Why this matters:** CLI auth errors cause confusing failures. This catches them in 5 seconds instead of 30 minutes.

### **1. Create Supabase Project**
- Go to [supabase.com](https://supabase.com)
- Create new project
- Note your project URL and anon key

### **2. Set Environment Variables**
```bash
# In .env.local
SUPABASE_URL=https://your-project.supabase.co
SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your-anon-key
```

### **3. Basic Schema (Optional)**
```sql
-- Users table (handled by Supabase Auth)
-- Bookings table
CREATE TABLE bookings (
  id UUID DEFAULT gen_random_uuid() PRIMARY KEY,
  customer_id UUID REFERENCES auth.users(id),
  vendor_id UUID REFERENCES auth.users(id),
  service_type TEXT NOT NULL,
  booking_date TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE,
  status TEXT DEFAULT 'pending',
  created_at TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE DEFAULT NOW()
);

-- Enable Row Level Security
ALTER TABLE bookings ENABLE ROW LEVEL SECURITY;
```

## 🗺 Map Setup (Mapbox)

### **1. Get Mapbox Token**
- Go to [mapbox.com](https://mapbox.com)
- Create account and get access token
- Add to `.env.local`:
  ```
  MAPBOX_ACCESS_TOKEN=your-token
  ```

### **2. Test Map Integration**
- The map components are ready for integration
- Update `MapAbstraction.tsx` with your token

## 🔐 Authentication Setup (Supabase)

### **1. Configure Auth Providers**
In Supabase Dashboard:
- Go to Authentication → Settings
- Enable providers: Google, GitHub, Email
- Configure redirect URLs

### **2. Set Up Auth in App**
```typescript
// In your auth configuration
const supabase = createClient(
  process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL!,
  process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY!
)
```

## 🚀 Deployment (Vercel)

### **1. Deploy to Vercel**
```bash
# Install Vercel CLI
npm i -g vercel

# Deploy
vercel

# Set environment variables in Vercel dashboard
```

### **2. Environment Variables in Vercel**
- `SUPABASE_URL`
- `SUPABASE_ANON_KEY`
- `MAPBOX_ACCESS_TOKEN`
- `OLLAMA_ENDPOINT` (if using cloud Ollama)

## 🧪 Development Workflow

### **Daily Development**
```bash
# Start all services
ollama serve &  # AI server
pnpm dev        # Next.js dev server

# In another terminal
pnpm type-check # Type checking
pnpm lint       # Linting
```

### **Testing Features**
- **AI Radius Scaling**: Click "Test Radius" button
- **Map Abstraction**: Use "Toggle Abstraction" 
- **No-Show System**: Click "Demo Feedback"
- **AI Conversational**: Try AI input field
- **Booking Guarantee**: Use "Demo Booking"

## 🔧 Troubleshooting

### **Ollama Issues**
```bash
# Check if Ollama is running
curl http://localhost:11434/api/tags

# Restart Ollama
pkill ollama
ollama serve

# Check model is downloaded
ollama list
```

### **Supabase Issues**
```bash
# Test connection
curl https://your-project.supabase.co/rest/v1/

# Check environment variables
echo $SUPABASE_URL
```

### **Next.js Issues**
```bash
# Clear cache
rm -rf .next
pnpm dev

# Check dependencies
pnpm install
```

## 📊 Performance Tips

### **Development**
- Use `pnpm` for faster installs
- Enable TypeScript strict mode
- Use React DevTools for debugging

### **Production**
- Enable Next.js optimizations
- Use Supabase connection pooling
- Configure Ollama for production (or use cloud)

## 🎯 Next Steps

1. **Set up Supabase database schema**
2. **Integrate Mapbox maps**
3. **Configure payment system (Stripe)**
4. **Add real-time features**
5. **Deploy to production**

---

**Need help?** Check the main README.md for detailed documentation or create an issue in the repository.
